Food is no doubt, a basic human need. Hence, achieving food security in any states and country as a whole is pivotal to national development. The Food and Agriculture Association of the United Nations says about 805 million people (almost the population of the whole of Africa) were chronically undernourished between 2012 and 2014. As the world population continues to grow, efforts and innovations are geared towards enhancing sustainable increase in agricultural production, global food supply chain, and ensuring that all who are suffering from inadequate food supply have access to abundant food. Nigeria, with her huge land mass endowed with both natural and human resources is not spared from food insecurity. This is because Nigerian food crisis is a man-made product of colonial disorientation that has led to the neglect of the peasant agriculture and food crops sub-sector as well as the over reliance on cash crops production and the over dependence on the oil sector. There is no doubt that the greatest threat to national stability in any country is food insecurity. Cheerfully, Lagos, the commercial nerve centre of Nigeria and indeed West Africa with a population of about 24 million people is making remarkable efforts towards ensuring adequate availability of food in the state. This special status of Lagos population equates to a significant high demand for food consumption. Over the years, the state has put in place a lot of policies to help in harnessing the agricultural potentials possessed by the state. For the first time in the state, Governor Akinwunmi Ambode created the office for the Special Adviser on Food Security. The office is saddled with the responsibility of formulating policies to attract foreign investors to benefit from the comparative advantage the state has and to encourage the local farmers by providing farm implements at a subsidized rate. To enhance the locally produced food in the state, the office of the Special Adviser oversees the Lagos State Agricultural Land Holdings Authority (ALHA), Lagos State Agricultural Input Supply Authority (LAISA), Lagos State Coconut Development Authority (LASCODA),Lagos State Agricultural Development Authority (ADA), FADAMA I, II and Additional Financing III and the Commercial Agricultural Development Project. The state government also for the first time ever than any state in the country went into a bilateral agreement with Kebbi State Government on the production of rice. The Lagos-Kebbi partnership clearly demonstrates the strong resolve of the State Government to enhance food security not only in Lagos, but also in the country at large. The partnership thrives on pragmatic use of existing resources for the common good of the citizenry. The two states made strict use of their areas of comparative advantage to realize the production of the LAKE Rice. For instance, Kebbi State is endowed with a vast arable land for groundnut and a host of others while Lagos has the needed industrial and economic potentials to drive the partnership. One key benefit of the production of LAKE rice is its availability and the affordability to the masses, which has gone a long way in reducing the demand for imported rice. The state government has however introduced the Cage Culture System of Fish Farming to the state. The cage culture system of fish farming is a system where fishes are nurtured in their natural habitat with the construction of modern technology cages in the water. Youths from various communities were selected as beneficiaries and trained in fish cage construction and management, fish production, fish farm management activities etc. This has created over 126 indirect form of employments as the beneficiaries are formed into Cooperative Societies and assigned 15 fish cages per group to manage. Each cage was stocked with 1,000 Clarias spp (cat fish) post juveniles and managed for a culture cycle of four months. Extension services and support have been provided to beneficiaries to ensure sustainability of the project. The project was in the bid of the Akinwunmi Ambode’s led administration to increase fish production and create more jobs through training and empowerment of youths  in the state. However, 20tones of catfish were harvested during the harvest of the year 2017 cage and pen harvest. In furtherance to boost the supply of hygienic food in the state, the government has upgraded various abattoirs in the state while others are still under rehabilitation process. For instance, the government has embarked on the rehabilitation of Oko-Oba abattoir in Agege, which involves construction of transit camp; a housing facility comprising of 100 units of selfcontained rooms to accommodate cattle merchants on transit and construction of head, hide and stripe processing facility to curb unhygienic processing of meat products. The facility will also include a general cleaning service established to be responsible for the general and day to day removal of all kinds of waste generated in the whole of Abattoir complex. Oko-Oba abattoir is the biggest meat market in both size and meat production capacity in Africa. There is no doubt that the market sits on a comfortable position to contribute to the wholesale meat consumption needs of the state, revenue generation and employment creation for Lagosians. A recent statistics showed that over 1,500 cows are slaughtered on daily basis and has an estimate of about 3,000 butchers with several people gainfully employed in various sections of the market. Furthermore, the Matori Abattoir in Mushin Local Government is yet another upgraded abattoir. The slaughter house is within two buildings with a mechanized section which handles the slaughtering of cows while the other building handles the skinning and dressing of the animal. Matori abattoir plays a significant role in meat consumption needs of Mushin and its environs with the butchering of over 50 cows daily and four standby tanks to supply enough water for the cleaning of the abattoir. Interestingly, Lagos State recently held ‘The Food Security summit’, which was the first of its type in the history of Lagos. The summit was targeted at providing a veritable platform for discourse on various investment opportunities in agriculture and agro-allied business in the state, with the aim of stimulating private investment in the sector and ultimately optimize its vast agro-processing and agro-allied potentials. The summit created a landmark event to showcase the potential of investors in the agricultural sector and targeted towards maximizing the comparative advantage in the agricultural sector to achieve food security in the state. Conclusively, Lagos State Government is not left out in the International Food day celebration as the event was celebrated in the state in a grand style. The government in its commitment to promoting sustainable food production in the state is providing direct technical assistance and advisory services to farmers through field extension officers who work in communities to enhance increase in production and profit, to increase standard of living of Lagosians, provide job opportunities and create wealth in the state.  •Ogunbanwo wrote in from Lagos state secretariat, Alausa