Head of Service of the Federation, Mrs. Winifred Oyo-Ita, in collaboration with EFAB Properties, handed over documents of a three-bedroom bungalow to father of quintuplets delivered at the National Hospital, Abuja. Oyo-Ita made the presentation to Mr. Imudia Uduehi, the father of the children, at the 2017 Federal Integrated Staff Housing (FISH) Programme Summit yesterday in Abuja. Oyo-Ita, on April 22, promised to give the parents of the female quintuplets delivered through caesarean section a house under the FISH Scheme. “I made the promise in faith but to the glory of God EFAB has helped us to fulfil our promise. “I hereby present the documents of a three-bedroom flat in Dakwa area of Dei Dei, Abuja, to the father of the children,’’ she said. Dr Ugo Udo, EFAB property manager, according to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), said the gesture was not planned but was to support the head of service in fulfilling her promise. He added that it was a way of carrying out their own social responsibility and giving back to the community what the company had been benefiting. Udo said that the house was already completed and ready for them to move in. Uduehi, who received the documents on behalf of his family, expressed gratitude to God Almighty for the gift of the children, He also thanked Oyo-Ita for her motherly role in ensuring that the children were comfortable. “I give glory to God, for the children brought to my family and Nigeria. “I thank President Muhammadu Buhari, the Head of Service and the owners of EFAB for this life-changing gift. “From the moment the Head of Service visited us in the hospital everything changed for us. May God continue to bless her and may this administration continue to flourish,” he said. Juliana Francis Journalists and policemen were shocked yesterday after some suspected pipeline vandals disclosed that guards employed as watchdogs over pipelines at Ogijo, Ikorodu, Lagos State, are behind vandalism in the area. The suspects, who made this disclosure at Zone 2 Police Command, Onikan, Lagos State, said that after damaging the pipelines and syphoning the fuel, the guards would hand the products to their wives to sell. The 10 suspects were arrested by operatives attached to the Zonal Intervention Squad (ZIS). Items recovered from them are two pump action rifles, four live cartridges, two pumping machines, one Army bulletproof vest, one Army face cap and one Toyota Corolla car. One of the suspects, Mr. Innocent Ikechukwu (42), a buyer, said: “I have been arrested and I’m now in police custody, there’s no need for me to lie. If I’m lying, let it not be well with me. I don’t buy fuel from men, I buy from women. Their husbands are the vandals. They give the women the fuel and the women sell to us. I buy for N3,000 and sell for N3,500 or N4,000.” Another suspect, Mr. Tochukwu Ohanezim (34), also a buyer, said: “I buy the fuel from men that guard the pipelines. Yes, these men are employed to guard these pipelines, but they are the ones vandalis-