Traders, business associates and customers of the big market, popularly called ‘Berger Market’ are still counting their losses and nursing the wounds of demolition of the market. While traders are at a loss and confused on the next step to take, customers are embittered and worried of losing their nearby local market. OLUWASEYI ALANI reports Last week, bulldozers rolled into the Berger market at Ojodu to demolish it. Those who led the demolition went at the early hours with bulldozers and other instruments to help in bringing down shops inside the market. The ever-busy market suddenly stopped buzzing with activities. Not one of the shops was spared from the demolition. The only recognition left of the expansive market were the ruins of the place, broken tiles, planks, zinc, and a few items from shops of those who couldn’t salvage their goods before the demolition. Area boys otherwise known as street urchins had field days of the demolition. Not that they did not really sympathise with the traders. They were happier at the opportunity that presented itself for them to loot. They were seen carting away goods, removing nails and selling parts of the broken shops, like planks, tiles, doors. When New Telegraph visited, there was heavy security presence at the entrances of the gate, PHCN officials were seen disconnecting electricity wires from poles supplying light to the market. Carpenters were busy working fastidiously; they were hitting hammers on nails making pellets at the edges of the walls of the market. Outside the gate, the traders and passersby wore mournful looks as they watched the bulldozers level their place of survival and their nearby market. Those who manage to salvage their property made use of cart pushers and commercial buses-(Danfo) A few of the affected traders quickly auctioned their goods at give away prices in front of the locked gate. The Bureau De Change operators did not seem perturbed as much because, the nature of their business is scouting around for customers. Majority of the traders complained to New Telegraph that they were not given enough notice to vacate the market before demolition took place. According to Falobi Tinuke, a trader, the demolition came from Lagos state government. “The government is selfish, ignorant and wicked. We did not say they should not demolish the market but they should at least notify us and spare us some time to find our ways,” she said. Gbemi Olumide, a trader, was visibly shaken and at a loss of what to say but simply said, “this is totally unfair. How and where do I start from?” For Adekunle Titilayo, a fashion designer, the demolition came as a shock. “I was shocked and totally confused about what next to do. I have to fight for safety of my goods first, that I did blindly, and desperately. I thank God I was able to pack all my goods,” she said. The memory of the demolition remains indelible for Emeka Chinedu, a shoe seller who couldn’t talk but was just crying. His wife said they were not aware the market space had issue with Lagos State government or any other land owners and they were also not informed. Even though Chinedu and his wife have another shoe shop outside the market, the wife said they lost millions of naira to the demolition as they couldn’t really rescue all of their goods. Rebecca Idris, trader said she felt disappointed, “I felt disappointed about the demolition. The government really disappointed me. I have always credited them on their style of governance and beautiful work they have done to Lagos State but this is totally unfair,” she said. Chinaza Chidebere, a provision seller said they were not informed. Chidebere’s regret now is that “most of my customers will not be able to get through to me. I can only get through to those I have their contacts, informing them about the latest news at Berger market, also telling them about home service delivery if they won’t be angry about it. Anuoluwapo Bakare, a fish seller, differed a little from others. She told New Telegraph that they were informed but the notice was short. “I knew about the demolition but it was just hours to the pulling down.” She revealed to New Telegraph that there have been issues on the land, but it has always been sorted out and the people in charge have always given them assurance that nothing will happen to them. She said for the past 10 years, they have been drumming it to their hearing that there is a court case on the land which the market was located. She explained that they have been shifting the evil day forward by bribing officials of local council through Iya Oloja of the market. “Just last two weeks ago, Iya Oloja collected N8million from us to pay so as to prevent the demolition,” she said. However, the Lagos State Government on Friday debunked had being involved in the demolition exercise saying that the allegation was removed from the reality. The state Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Wasiu Anifowose, said the state government couldn’t have carried out such act without organising a stakeholder meeting with the concerned people and ensure to give them enough notice. “As a State Government, we prefer to categorically deny involvement within the demolition train as alleged in some nationwide dailies. For the avoidance of doubt, the Lagos State Government hereby categorically deny involvement in the demoilition exercise,” Anifowose said. He added that the final time the State Government carried out a demolition train was in January when lay-by was being constructed.