As part of effort to celebrate the World Malaria’s Day, members of the Junior Chamber International (JCI), Ikeja Chapter, a non-governmental organisation made up of youths between the ages of 18 and 40, on Saturday partnered with Lagos State Waste Management Authority (LAWMA), to organise an awareness campaign to sensitize the community to stay clean and living healthy. Speaking with Sunday Telegraph, JCI’s Ikeja Coordinator, Femi Alagbala said the clean up exercise was part of the NGO’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) to its immediate community, to educate and enlighten the people on the need to keep their environment clean, especially as the world celebrates malaria day. “This is one of our numerous CSR initiatives. We have decided to take this exercise to different communities in Ikeja and its environs, because we are JCI Ikeja chapter, we have to affect our immediate environment first. Usually, before we go to any particular community, we write the community and meet with key players in the community to get approval before going to carry out the exercise. “We are using the group active citizen framework; and we came to the Ikeja community to sensitize the people to see the need to keep their environment clean. To let them know that once their environment is clean, the risk of being sick is reduce drastically. “As it’s in our practice, after such exercise, we keep coming checking from time to time to ensure that what we have done is being put in practice by the people of the community. So, we will be coming to ensure that what we are doing today (Saturday) is being followed,” he said. The regent of the stool of the Olu of Ikeja, Lagos State, Prince Adekunle Isiaka Apina, commended the group on their gesture and assured them of his support whenever they need his assistance. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), malaria kills more than 400,000 people annually. In 2015, 90 per cent of malaria cases and 92 per cent of malaria deaths occurred in Africa. WHO estimates that there were 212 million new cases of malaria in 2015 worldwide and 182 million Nigerians are at risk of an infection. Malaria symptoms are: general weakness, body ache, dizziness, fever, headache, chills, nausea and vomiting.