Wonders, they say, shall never end! It is unthinkable that an individual will inflict bodily injuries on himself, or rather unimaginable that a person will intentionally aggravate a little wound into a big one just to receive sympathy for people to give them money. This is Lagos, Nigeria’s cosmopolitan city where those ugly scenarios are real. OKI SAMSON reports on the weird ways of begging Every day, around Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), Ikeja, it is common to find some individual working singly, in two’s or maximum in three’s move around adjoining streets and roads of the hospital in bandages, with empty sachets and cartons of drugs and dressed in tatters begging alms of unsuspecting members of the public. They claimed they have been abandoned by family and friends in the hospital for long periods and cannot afford the cost of treatments any longer, thus they have to take the bull by the horn to seek financial help from the public themselves. They beg, cry, pray, kneel, and do whatever just to attract sympathy members of the public to part with their hard-earned cash. The ‘gbana’ folks as they are mostly called by those who really know their antics are all in this shady business for illicit drugs. They derive this colloquial name from ‘gbana’ – a local illicit drug in the society. It was discovered that after 2 -3 hours of doing business on the streets and making enough money, these characters walk down the road to the popular Ipodo market, just five minutes trek away from the hospital, to clean their faces, relax and perhaps get some drugs before they set out for another round of business. Inside Ipodo street in Ikeja at midday, they sit in rows, smoking, drinking and bantering jokes and gist with one another at bars scattered around the street. On the street, there is no mistaken about them, their peculiarity of persons in terms of dressing and physical look (unkempt) exposes them. Before smoking, they gradually remove some of the clothes they have used for their theatrical sunder the bridge, clean their face before they join their colleagues to relax. After relaxation, they make up into tarter look getting set for under the bridge begging businesses. Mr. Ibrahim, a gardener around the area, stated: “They are fake people. They will buy receipts and pick empty sachets of drugs to camouflage. You will find among them young girls, old men and women, police used to arrest them but they will soon be back. If you come at night, you will see them as drug addicts. We call them ‘gbana’ and it makes them angry. They use to injure themselves.’ He pointed at a particular woman who though had an accident has been aggravating the injury by pouring hot liquids. Chinyere Onuagha, one of the beggars who looked so unkempt, said she doesn’t have anybody to help her since her accident happened. She stated she is not married but has a baby in the east, lives in Agege and has a family member who resides in Ikorodu. She added that it has not been easy moving around with the wound. Another beggar, who refused to say anything until she gota token from our correspondent said she came out for alms because she needed N1600 to buy drugs and there is no welfare department to help her. She was seen holding an empty carton of drug and a receipt. New Telegraph had a real encounter with one of the beggars. The middle-aged girl who goes by the name, Christy approached the correspondent and knelt down, claiming that her mother is lying in the hospital after she had an accident two days ago but her mother needed to eat. The correspondent brought out N500 and promised to give it to her provided that she will buy the food in LASUTH canteen within the hospital premises where he is sure that she would get good food. As they both approached the hospital, she again begged the reporter to give her the money to buy at a food vendor outside the premises because it would be cheaper. After much persuasion, she entered the hospital where she was accosted by the PRO and security men of the hospital. There, she denied that her mother is in the hospital and accused the reporter of wanting to sleep with her for money. She also confessed that some of her friends actually use the hospital papers to becloud unsuspecting members of the public but swiftly added that she does not do such, that she is only doing her business. A woman who witnessed the incident said that she had to watch from afar because those people know her very well since she keep her wares in Ipodo. She claimed that they could injure her if they noticed she was speaking with a journalist. But she disclosed that they are dangerous form of human beings. She stated that Christy is a thief because she stole large sum of money from a man who tried to help them in the past. According to her narration, The man who quickly went to get N10,000 from the ATM for them couldn’t believe his eyes because the girls have already made away with the money in his car while he was away. She added that many of the girls smoke heavily in the morning before they step up for the day’s activities. The Public Relations Officer of the hospital, Mrs. Anifowose Bello said the incident has vindicated the hospital in the case, and said that she has reached out to these people to come into the hospital and take free drugs but they have refused. She appealed to the government to come to the aid of the hospital as the people are denting the good image of the tertiary health institution. In the same vein, the Chief Medical Director, Dr. Adedokun, also said, “I assure you that these people are not from LASUTH. I have negotiated with them that if they really need drugs to take care of themselves, that the hospital will give them free drugs.” ACP Ugbo Harrison, Area F command said, “some are actually fake, I have had an experience whereby I saw a man begging me for money under the bridge but I later saw him drinking and smoking at the Ipodo market.” Another police officer in the area exposed that many of them who are young girls stand by the roadside at night looking for men to augment their money from prostitution. New Telegraph also spoke with a medical doctor who agreed to speak under condition of anonymity. The doctor said: ‘The reason why these people parade themselves on the streets is that they cannot afford money for treatment but the situation really is that many of them are fakers, they only fake these injuries to get sympathy of the public. Many of them have been in the business for a while now, they know how to bruise themselves, and they pick receipts and empty sachets on hospital floors. They are usually not allowed into the hospital premises at the point of entry, but they evade the security men at the gate when big trucks come in. the doctors in the ward do chase them out. Even police officers, NDLEA do arrest them on the road but after a while, they are left off the hook on the ground that they are poor. Many of them are drug addicts. There is a popular place called Ipodo where you will usually find them at nights. The very few who are genuine do not get help from the public because of the activities of these people. Publicspirited individuals, however, do come in to the hospital to help people who are in need.