At the weekend, Governor Akinwunmi Ambode held his quarterly Town Hall meeting, which coincided with the Lagos @50 celebration. The meeting was another avenue to appreciate the founding founders and predecessors of the state. Muritala Ayinla reports When Governor Akinwunmi Ambode came up with the mantra of ‘Itesiwaju Eko’ during the build up to the 2015 general election, he did so with the pledge to run an allinclusive government that will leave nobody behind regardless of their tribe, religion and other differences. Many had doubted the possibility of the governor running a government that will truly carry along all strata of the public, given the metropolitan nature of Lagos. They had argued that Ambode might likely be elitist in his governance style all in a bid to woo more investors into the state, adding that his attention would focus on the already developed areas and leave the developing and the neglected areas undeveloped. They had believed that many separated communities suffering from road infrastructures will be left unconnected while those whose environment were begging for attention with facilities would forever remain in the shamble throughout the administration. But Ambode has proven the cynics wrong with provision infrastructure in the areas categorised as the neglected axis. Ambode has not only been meeting the needs of the residents of these areas through the presence of government’s attention but also been getting direct feedbacks from them through the quarterly town hall meetings. According to the governor, taking the Town Hall meetings to the people specifically excites him as it affords him the opportunity to get first-hand information on the needs of the community and how his administration could respond accordingly. Speaking during the last Town Hall meeting held last Friday at Shibiri/Ekunpa Area Office in Oto- Awori Local Council Development Area (LCDA, Ambode led members of the State Executive Council and other top officials of the state government to the venue, said his decision to hold the meeting at the council was a fulfillment of his electoral promises. According to him, Oto-Awori was part and parcel of his promise to run an all-inclusive government, thus no community would be left behind in the quest by his administration to ensure all round development of the state. New Telegraph gathered that Oto-Awori, which was carved out from Ojo Local Government, has never hosted such delegation in recent years and as such, hosting of such meeting elicited the excitement on the thousands of residents, who trooped to the venue to catch a glimpse of the governor and listen to his account of stewardship. The quarterly Town Hall meeting, which was the second in the year and seventh in the series, attracted residents cutting across community leaders, traditional rulers, market women, youth leaders and party leaders in the area. It afforded the opportunity to ask questions on grey areas. At the meeting, Ambode assured the people that efforts would be made to improve healthcare service delivery in the riverine area in Oto Awori, saying that residents in such areas have remained relevant in the government’s achievements over the years. The governor also responded to the request for a General Hospital to be constructed in the area, saying that three new facilities have been catered for in the 2017 budget. According to him, “talking about General Hospitals, in the budget we have designated General Hospitals for three areas and Ojo Local Government is one of them. It is in the pipeline. It’s just a matter of time, and we are already closing in on it. This area is traditionally and historically known to be a major supporter of government and then we must give them back for the support which they have always been known for.” Ambode also acceded to the request of the residents for the rehabilitation of the access roads linking the area to the Alimosho General Hospital, which they currently use pending the construction of a nearby General Hospital and at the meeting immediately directed the State Public Works Corporation to immediately fix the roads to improve accessibility to the facility. Reacting to complaints on a number of uncompleted road projects across the state, Ambode directed contractors handling the projects to immediately return to their various sites, warning that his administration would not hesitate to terminate such contracts. “If we are able to do a link bridge in 11 months, if we are able to do Ajah flyover in 13 months and Abule Egba flyover in 13 months and we are going to commission all of them next month, how can these roads be there forever? So, obviously we should use the same spirit of delivering service to do all the outstanding roads. The Ministry of Works must go back to these sites. I must know what is going on within the next few days,” the governor said. He listed some of the projects to include Mile 10 Road, Mowo Road, Tedi Road, Ilaje Road, Goriola Oseni Road, Sabo Mosafejo Road and Imude Orisa Road where only 1.5km of the road was covered by the contractor. “These are contracts already awarded. It’s for our own contractors to go there and finish the job. So, the responsibility is on us to make sure you deliver these roads within the shortest possible time and that’s what it should be,” he said. He informed the gathering that he had approved that all the mini waterworks across the state, numbering about 41 should be functional within the next 12 weeks to ensure that residents have access to clean and portable water. On the lamentation by the physically challenged, Ambode immediately directed that the Civil Service Commission and the Local Government Civil Service Commission should put modalities in place to employ at least 250 physically challenged persons into the State Civil Service, even as he also ordered the Commission’s chairman to offset all arrears of allowances owed the physically challenged athletes in the state next week. He disclosed that N1.7 billion was approved as loans to 1,400 businesses out of which N1.2 billion has already been disbursed to 800 people, saying that within the quarter under review, the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund continued to fulfill its mandate of providing subsidized loans to our entrepreneurs. “By the end of this month, loans to another 1,000 businesses will be approved, taking the total loans approved above 2,000. To further serve Lagos residents, the fund will soon open the application process for skills development and training to help our unemployed youths take up existing jobs within the Lagos economy. I urge you to visit the Fund’s website or their liaison offices in the Local Governments to apply for their various programs,” Governor Ambode said. Under agriculture, the governor said his administration has commenced the upgrade of the 167-hectare Songhai Model Farm in Avia- Igborosun, Badagry to encourage organic agriculture and train citizens interested in agro-business for local consumption or export, while 540 fishermen across the state were trained on the use of fishing equipment to improve their skills as well as optimize their understanding of the trade and boost income. Besides, the governor, while responding to a request for the government to utilise the 300 hectares of arable lands in the area, said he would visit the area with his team to access the land and look at the possibilities of boosting the economy of the area through mechanised farming. Projecting for the next quarter, Ambode said that the government would kick start the implementation of the Cleaner Lagos Initiative, implement the construction of 181 roads across the 57 LGs/LCDAs, complete the Abule-Egba and Ajah flyover bridges, further signalization of Lekki – Ajah express road and continuation of road network upgrade in all the three Senatorial Zones. “Furthermore, initiatives for Tourism will be intensified by commencing Development of Heritage Centre for Leadership (Presidential Lodge), Lagos History Centre, J.K Randle Centre, Transformation of the Onikan Museum, Development of tourism hubs in Lagos-West, Lagos- East, Construction of 6 Cultural Theatres in Alimosho, Badagry, Epe, Ikorodu, Ikeja and Lagos Mainland, and continuation of Epe and Badagry Waterfront development as well as other tourist potentials in the area,” he said. Speaking on behalf of the residents and market women, Alhaja Abimbola Suraju, a market leader in Oto-Awori said:“I want to sincerely thank Governor Akinwunmi Ambode for bringing this town hall meeting to Oto Awori. I never believed that in my lifetime that this place will host the governor and his cabinet members. Before now, they would always ask us to come to Ikeja, but this time around, they have come to our own community.”