Promises to send a child to school in the city is the simplest way of deceiving parents in the villages to release their children to uncles and aunties, who eventually turn them to domestic servants and house helps who have overtime been subjected to all manners of ill-treatments. CHIJIOKE IREMEKA reports The story of a 16 year old boy, Chukwuebuka Ibeh, is a typical example of what house helps and others who live with their relatives go through in major cities in Nigeria. Ebuka is the first son out of eight children of a petty trader, Mr. Josiah Ibe, from Mbano in Imo State. Ibe believes that children are gifts from the Lord and it is bigger blessings to have as many of them as possible as long a man remains potent. Josiah’s elder sister took his brother’s son to Lagos with the intention of helping him to ease the sufferings of the little boy and his parents, but things didn’t work out the way it was planned, as the young man is currently suffering under the roof of his mistress. In most cases, when madam cooks, she eats with her children without giving Ebuka any. Yet the young man singlehandedly does the house chores. Under this extreme starvation, Ebuka went to a neighbour’s shop and stole bread and a bottle of Coke to quench the hunger, but the boy was almost beaten to death. When he was taken home to his madam, his head was shaven as punishment. While Ebuka’s cousins enjoy the opulence of their private schools, he treks to his public primary school where he is in primary six at 5th Avenue Festac Town, Lagos, every day. He treks over a distance of two kilometres from Hope Estate in Amuwo Odofin, after Ago Bridge. Ebuka’s condition is critical as his poor father would not want him back to add to his burden. He narrates his ordeals: “I came to Lagos with the hope living a normal life and becoming a rich man just like my uncle. I heard so much about Lagos and I wanted to be there. When my father’s sister came to pick me, I was told I would be a ‘big boy’ in Lagos but she has not been fair to me. I do all the house chores, yet she still treats me like a stranger. “My madam in Lagos is closely related to me. She is my cousin and it was my big aunty that brought me to her house. Before we vacated in school last month, my madam reduced the money for my transport and feeding at school to N100 on the excuse of the poor economy. We live in Hope Estate, Amuwo Odofin, after Ago Bridge but my school is in Festac. I don’t eat at home all day. Sometimes, while returning from school, I go to my small aunt’s place in Festac to eat. “My aunty trades in frozen foods in Festac, but the harsh economy forced her to close down her shop. Sometimes, after closing hours, she sends somebody to pick her children from school which is just a stone throw from my school, while I am left behind to trek home from Fectac to Amuwo on an empty stomach. “As usual, one day, when my aunty cooked and didn’t give me, I was dead hungry and I didn’t know what to do. I went to our neigbhour’s shop, took bread and Coke, ate and hid the Coke bottle and I didn’t know somebody saw me. The shop owner was alerted about the act. My aunty heard about it too. My aunt and her sister beat me like a criminal. I cried aloud that I don’t steal but I was very hungry that day, but no one listened to me as I was beaten mercilessly. Later that day, my head was shaven with razor blade as punishment for stealing, not minding that they were the one that starved me. “From the injuries I sustained from the beating, I didn’t want to do anything but to go back home. But I couldn’t do this because my parents won’t accept me back home, they were convinced that my destiny of becoming great in life was tried to staying under the care of my aunty in Lagos, whereas I have been suffering untold hardship. My father has insisted that, he doesn’t have the money to train me and my siblings in school. We are eight in number and I’m the first child. “When my aunty threatened to send me back to my parents in the village, my father begged with all his energy that I should be allowed to stay. My parents are poor and my father will not accept me back. Why I will continue to endure is that I want to go to school in Lagos and when I complete my education I will go back to the village on my own.” Our kitchen is my bedroom -Cynthia In another development, Cynthia Ugwu, a teenage girl from the eastern part of the country, said her aunt came to the village, brought her to Lagos, with the promise that she would send her to the higher institution. But as soon as she arrived in Lagos, she was made a nanny and an errand girl permanently, three years after getting to Lagos. She stated that in the three years that she has been with her madam in Lagos, there has been no attempt made for her to gain admission into any higher institution, stressing that, all that she has been doing is taking care of her aunt’s babies, laundry and cleaning of the house. To add to her sufferings, she is not allowed to sleep in the bedroom. “She told me that my bedroom is in the kitchen. There are rats there. I hang my cloths in the kitchen and I sleep on the floor. So far, I have enjoyed sleeping in the kitchen because the place is quiet for me to read my books since I am not allowed to read during the day in the house,” she said. Cynthia wakes up in the mid-night to read her books since the kitchen light is always on to scare away cockroaches and other insects from the dishes and stored foods. “Though, they give me food to eat, my major heart desire, which is to gain admission to study Mass Communication, is yet to be achieved and I don’t know if this would ever be achieved living under same roof with my aunt turned madam. I’m making plans to run away. I have contacted my parents and I have told them my intentions. I can’t continue this way,” she added. I eat on the bare floor –Lizzy Lizzy Etteh, a 13-year-old groundnut seller along Agidingbi-First Gate route in Ikeja, is another house help feeling the heat of the job. She was brought to Lagos by a woman who collected some money from her mistress. Lizzy came to Lagos with the joy that she was going to make money and complete her secondary school education. Initially she was grateful to the woman who brought her to Lagos. But not too long after her arrival in Lagos, the tune of the music changed. Lizzy just finished her primary school in the village when she was brought to Lagos. She started living with her mistress as a paid nanny, but three months later, a new task was added to her duty, and this has eaten her up. After her daily domestic chores, Lizzy now must hawk fried groundnut on the streets of Lagos. She told Sunday Telegraph: “I used to live with my parents in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, but when my parents had financial problems, I was taken to a woman to live with. My father lost his job and could no longer take care of us as he used to. So I was told that if I come to Lagos, I will do the work of a paid nanny and I will make money to complete my education. While I do the work, the woman who brought me to Lagos collects my monthly salary from my madam. “I was paid for the first three months and after that, my madam stopped paying me. She explained that the woman comes to collect my money for the purpose of saving it for me. I pleaded with my madam to stop giving this woman my money but she insisted that, that was the best way to do it. When I cried severally to her, my madam suggested that, for me to make extra money, I should start hawking groundnut from where she would pay me directly. “What will I do? I accepted and that is why you see me here every day. I’m really suffering under my mistress and there is nothing I can do. I have been with her for the past one year.” My uncle’s wife is horrible –Blessing “God will not permit me to allow my children live with any of their uncles or aunts  when I’m married. Some people are wicked. My uncle is a nice person but his wife is the problem. My uncle is a wealthy man and my father sent me to live with him when his business went bankrupt. I’m denied every good thing in the house for her children to be confortable. My uncle’s children go to barbing saloon to have their hair cut but my aunt cuts my hair with scissors. I’m in JSS 2 now. Every day, I go to school late because I have to finish all chores at home before stepping out. When I wake up early every morning, I sweep the house while my uncle’s children enjoy their sleep. I also wash their clothes and cook. I started cooking from the age of 11 years old. “After cooking, I’m the last to eat because they have to eat before me. At a point, my uncle’s wife was calling my mother to come and take me back to the village but my mum doesn’t want any of such stories. My uncle’s daughter knows that her mother maltreats me, but she doesn’t have powers to stop her. Whenever I cry, she consoles me. Today, I have a thick skin, there is no amount of insults that moves me again, as I’m used to harsh words and beating,” said Blessing Peters. I sleep in the shop with two other servants –Victor Victor Adeoye speaks of his experiences as an apprentice under his master. He said, “My madam sells beer and other alcoholic drinks but we the sales boys don’t sleep at home, we sleep in the shop with crates of beer every day. “One day, we thought of a way to leave the shop and we arrived at drinking Malt and beer as a way out. “One night, we used opener and opened about two crates of small stout. In the morning, when our master saw these and after beating us, they took us away from the shop to the house where we still didn’t sleep on the bed, rather we slept outside, on the veranda. That’s our room. Other sales boys left me there because I had no relative in Lagos. I followed a trailer truck to Lagos to make money. “One day at the veranda where I was sleeping, the woman’s son came out to urinate but didn’t know I was sleeping there and he urinated on me. I jumped but I dare not beat him. Sometimes, when I fetch water from a far distance, the boy will come and urinate in the water while sleep walking. His mother would pour the water away and insist I replace the water. Every night, before I sleep, I will fetch ten 50 litres of water, no matter how late.” ‘I slept on same table with a madman at a bus stop’ Adeoye later left her madam’s employ but things didn’t get better immediately. He said, “When I eventually left my master’s house, I was sleeping on a table at Mazamaza Bus-Stop. One night, when I woke up middle of the night, I saw a madman sharing the same table with me. I pursued him and went to sleep again, when I opened my eyes, I saw him by my side again. Again, I pursued him. The next day, it was same thing and after that night, I had to move away from there, eventually I met another person I stayed with. “My new location was much better for me because I have been sleeping in a house and have been eating fairly good food. If nobody tells you what he or she has been passing through, you won’t know.” ‘Trekking is an exercise, but long one, endurance’ Reacting to the experiences of our respondents, Psychologist, Kate Okoro said, “Trekking is a form of exercise but a long distance trekking could be hazardous, especially on an empty stomach and under a very hot sun. At this point, it’s no longer desired as an exercise, rather, it becomes endurance. Experience has shown that these people maltreated by their masters turn out to be great in life in the long run. Life trained them in a hard way, and they learnt in hard ways.”