In the April 19th edition of Hard Choices I signed off with the following question “with the farreaching amendments made by the Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended) what then is the fate of the Smart Card Reader and the Voters Register in the electoral process?” It is now a matter of common knowledge that the Senate has made far-reaching amendments to the concept and operation of the Card Readers (CRs) in the electoral process. The amendments, I acknowledge, are a product of our experiences in the use of the CRs and the extensive observations and pronouncements of the different Tribunals and Courts that adjudicated on various issues thrown up in the electoral process after the 2015 general elections. It is also a notorious fact that scare mongers almost derailed the introduction of the CRs in the electoral process. Just before the introduction of the CRs, sophists, soothsayers, opportunists and emergency electoral experts claimed that CRs are electronic voting machines or devises prohibited by section 52(1)(b) of the Electoral Act, 2010(as amended). The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on its part had difficulty selling the idea of the CRs to the Nigerian people. Some Nigerians raised concerns relating to our power and technological challenges, the challenge of training and operations of the CRs and the possibility of the CRs undermining the electoral process or being used to undermine the electoral process. At the end, INEC deployed the CRs for the 2015 general elections. In some polling units the device worked and genuine voters voted and ghost voters remained in the voters’ register and could not vote. In some other polling units, some of the Presiding Officers had difficulty operating the device while backups and maintenance did not arrive as at when due. And again, in some polling units, some politicians completely undermined the use of the card readers (CR) and “Incident Forms” replaced the CR. On the whole the CR triumphed over the cynics but left huge operational questions and challenges. Fortunately, in the petitions that arose after the 2015 elections, the courts clearly delineated the ambit and limitations of the CRs and the Senate has complemented the courts in plugging some of the lacuna in the law that created confusion in the Election Petitions Tribunals and among the political elite. The courts made it clear that the CRs are not electronic voting machines. The courts made it clear that the CRs have not displaced the voters’ register as the dominant document for purposes of accreditation of voters and proving over voting. The courts made it clear that the CRs are handmaids of the accreditation process that aid verification and authentication of registered voters. Unfortunately, and as should be expected, some legal practitioners that appeared before the various Election Petitions Tribunals and the courts posited that with the introduction of the Smart Card Readers, the voters register has become immaterial to the procedure and process of proving over voting in an election. Lawyers and the judges of the tribunals had the added challenge of reconciling the “Incident Forms” with the CRs and the place of the uploaded data from the CRs in the electoral process. The Senate has attempted and to some extent answered some of the critical and challenging questions regarding the CRs through “A Bill for an Act to amend the Electoral Act No. 6, 2010 and for Other Related Matters.” Prior to the amendments made by the Senate to the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended), the dominant section of the Electoral Act relating to accreditation of voters is section 49. Section 49 of the Act provides that any person intending to vote with his voter’s card, shall present himself to a Presiding Officer at the polling unit in the constituency in which his name is registered with his voter’s card. The Presiding Officer shall, on being satisfied that the name of the person is on the Register of Voters, issue him a ballot paper and indicate on the register that the person has voted. The Senate has now substituted section  49 of the Act with a new section 49. The new section 49 provides that: “A person intending to vote in an election shall present himself with his voter’s card to a Presiding Officer for accreditation at the polling unit in the constituency in which his name is registered. The Presiding Officer shall use a Smart Card Reader or any other technological device that may be prescribed by the Commission from time to time for the accreditation of voters, to verify, confirm or authenticate – (a) the genuineness or otherwise of the voter’s card; (b) that the voter’s card presented by the voter is registered at the polling unit in the constituency in which the card is presented; (c) the biometric connection or otherwise of the intending voter with the voter’s card; and (d) the number of duly accredited voters in the polling unit. The Bill also provides that “if the card reader fails the Presiding Officer on being satisfied that an intending voter is the owner of the voter’s card, may accredit the intending voter to vote in the election: PROVIDED that where the number of unaccredited voters under this subsection exceeds 10 per cent of the total number of registered voters in the polling unit, the Commission shall suspend the election in that unit.” The Bill also provides that the Presiding Officer on confirming that the intending voter’s name is on the Register of Voters, issue him with a ballot paper and record by ticking on the Register of Voters that the intending voter, having been accredited, received a ballot paper to vote in the particular election. Furthermore, the number of intending voters whose names are ticked for accreditation on the Register of Voters shall not be inconsistent with the number of intending voters accredited. At the end of accreditation of voters, the Presiding Officer shall instantly transmit the total number of intending voters accredited to vote with all other voter accreditation data captured by secured mobile electronic communication to the: (a) collation center at each level of collation of results to which the polling unit belongs in the constituency where the election is held; and (b) central database of the Commission kept at the National Headquarter of the Commission: PROVIDED that the Presiding Officer shall first record the total number of intending voters accredited to vote, with other relevant voter accreditation data from the polling unit, in forms of electoral documents as shall be prescribed by the Commission for this purpose from time to time and provide duly signed copies to polling agents. In respect of data of accreditation of voters, including polling unit results, for a particular election, the Presiding Officer shall not shut down its central database kept at its national headquarters, until all election petitions and appeals pertaining to that election are heard and determined by the tribunal or court, as the case may be. Furthermore, the result of an election in a polling unit shall be declared invalid, null and void either by the commission or tribunal or court, as the case may be, if, –(a) in the case of the commission, there is no record of accreditation directly from the Smart Card Reader or any technological device used by the commission in that polling unit for accreditation of voters, or (b) in the case of the tribunal or court, there is no certified report of accreditation issued by the commission. A Presiding Officer who intentionally contravenes any provision of the law that applies to him shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable, on conviction, to imprisonment for at least five years, without an option of fine. While the amendments made to the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended) in relation to accreditation of voters are far-reaching and with good intentions, they suffer from over elaboration and lack of fidelity to the adjudicatory and precedent setting role of the judiciary. The law can provide for the use of CRs in the accreditation process and leave its finer and operational details with the electoral management body. With the challenges faced in the operations and use of the Smart Card Readers, can Nigeria handle the use of electronic voting machines in the electoral process?