A Special Tactical Squad deployed by the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mr. Ibrahim Idris, has arrested six suspects in connection with an alleged assassination attempt on Senator Dino Melaye. The assassination attempt occurred at the Melaye’s residence in Iyala, Ijumu Local Government Area of Kogi State, on April 15. Among the suspects presented before journalists at the Force Headquarters, Abuja, was the Sole Administrator of Idumu Local Government Area of Kogi State, Mr. Taofik Isah, as well as his dismissed Orderly, ex-Sergeant Ede James. Other suspects arrested over the attempt on Melaye’s life are: Ade Obage, Abdullahi Isah, Ahmed Ajayi, and Michael Bamidele. An Ambulance (Hiace Bus), which was suspected to have been used for the operation, was displayed at the Force Headquarters yesterday. The Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), CSP Jimoh Moshood, who addressed journalists on the development, said the Force Criminal Intelligence and Investigation Department (FCIID) in Lagos, was undertaking a Ballistic expert examination, test and analysis of the firearms recovered from the suspects. Apart from the ambulance, other exhibits recovered, as listed by Moshood, are: Five AK 47 rifles One Berreta pistol, two locallymade single barrel shot gun, 25 expended shells of 7.62 mm ammunition, 13 expended shells of 9mm ammunition, and 12 expended shells gauge cartridge. The FPRO disclosed that one of the suspects, Obage, “voluntarily informed the Police that he has the knowledge and information about the attempted assassination/ murder attack of Senator Dino Melaye after the attack was carried out. “He (Obage) further informed the investigators that he was contacted to join the gang by Abdullahi Eko a principal suspect now in Police custody.” Moshood further alleged that one Abdulmumini, who is a Personal Assistant to Isah,” recruited members of the gang for the attack…” The Ijumu Local Government Administrator, however, denied having a hand in the assassination attempt.