Speaker, Yakubu Dogara, yesterday led the House leadership to pay a condolence visit to the President of the Senate, Sen. Bukola Saraki and the leadership of the Senate over the death of Senator Isiaka Adeleke. That was even as both chambers of the National Assembly adjourned sitting yesterday over the death of the Senator from Osun State. While expressing sadness over the sudden demise of the late senator, Dogara said that he would be remembered for his legacies, especially for his dedication to the betterment of the common man. He also offered condolences to President Muhammadu Buhari, the government and people of Osun State and the immediate family of the deceased, praying that God grants them the fortitude to bear the loss. The speaker said the sudden death came as a rude shock, especially, as he was “someone, who, as described on the floor of the House, whose major preoccupation was the problem of the common man.” “We were rudely shocked by the sudden, very sudden departure of this great Nigerian, who has contributed immensely to his home state, Osun, and the development of this country as a whole. “On behalf of members of the House of Representatives, we have come to offer our sincere condolences and we pray that God condoles the government of this country ably led by President Muhammadu Buhari, the Senate President, the Senate leadership, all the members of the Senate, the entire National Assembly community, the government and people of Osun State, his immediate family, which will of course, miss him most and we pray that God will forgive his sins and grant his soul eternal rest,” the Speaker prayed. Speaking to newsmen after signing the condolence register in front of the Senate chamber, Dogara said the late Senator would be remembered for the legacies he left behind. He added that it was a sad day for the entire membership and staff of the National Assembly, which is why, as is the custom of the House, activities of the House were adjourned in memory of the member lost. The House had before the adjournment, paid glowing tributes to Adeleke.