Senator Annie Okonkwo, who r e p r e s e n t e d Anambra Central senatorial district in the Sixth Senate, yesterday dispelled speculations making the rounds that he was contesting the state’s governorship election coming up in November this year. In a statement issued by his Special Adviser on Public Communications, Mr. Collins Steve Ugwu, the senator said the clarification he was making became imperative given the tasteless and unsolicited sudden emergence of his posters on the streets of Anambra, purporting that he was a candidate in the election. “For the avoidance of doubt and for the purposes of public records, we wish to state pointedly that Senator Annie Okonkwo, as politically vibrant as he is and as eminently qualified as it has been established to aspire and contest any elective office in this country, does not intend to, and will certainly not be in the ballot for Anambra 2017 governorship election. “We therefore deplore these thoughtless orchestrations as completely out of character and a miserable script of mischief from persons or quarters whose intents are base and whose expectations stand ruined ab initio. “In all fairness, Okonkwo is a bold politician, whose courage of conviction does not come piecemeal, and who makes no apology for choices within his remit. But he is strategic and candid enough to discern that the pulse of the Anambra people whose interests he champions relentlessly and will continue to do, does not presently support the scenario being painted by these lazy labourers. “Of course, as a committed vendor of service, sensitive to the wishes of his supporters and followers, he has been engaging them proactively and purposefully, to build consensus and strengthen alliances, for the inevitable direction they will go as the elections beckons. That will be done properly, colourfully and publicly when the consultations are exhausted and the time due. “For now, we urge all our teeming supporters and the general public to remain calm and ignore this distraction, because as a politician with fidelity, Okonkwo will not engage them by proxy or dark silhouettes on such vital issue,” the statement said.