 Lawyers at the weekend rose up in defence of President Muhammadu Buhari over a 3-man panel of enquiry he set up to look into corruption allegations against the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), David Babachir Lawal and the Director General of the National Intelligence Agency (NIA), Ambassador Ayo Oke. The panel was set up by the president following the suspension of the two top government officials by him.Their suspension was contained in a statement released on April 19, 2017, by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina. While Lawal was suspended in connection with the award of contracts under the Presidential Initiative on North-East, Oke was suspended in connection with the discovery of the sums of $43,449,947, £27,800 and N23, 218,000 (about N13billion) by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) at a private apartment in Osborne Towers, Ikoyi, Lagos, over which the NIA has made a claim. The statement indicated that President Buhari has ordered that thorough investigations be conducted into the allegations against the two top government officials. The president also set up a three-man committee, comprising the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN); the National Security Adviser, Babagana Monguno; and headed by Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, to investigate the allegations. The committee has 14 days to submit its reports. The statement read: “President Muhammadu Buhari has ordered an investigation into the allegations of violations of law and due process made against the SGF, Mr David Babachir Lawal, in the award of contracts under the Presidential Initiative on the North-East. “The president has also di-rected the suspension of the SGF from office pending the outcome of the investigations. “In a related development, the president has ordered a full-scale investigation into the discovery of large amounts of foreign and local currencies by the EFCC in a residential apartment at Osborne Towers, Ikoyi, Lagos, over which the National Intelligence Agency has made a claim. “The investigation is also to enquire into the circumstances in which the NIA came into possession of the funds; how and by whose or which authority the funds were made available to the NIA, and to establish whether or not there has been a breach of the law or security procedure in obtaining custody and use of the funds. “The president has also directed the suspension of the Director- General of the NIA, Ambassador Ayo Oke, pending the outcome of the investigation. “A three-man committee, comprising the AGF and Minister of Justice, and the NSA, headed by the Vice-President, is to conduct both investigations. “The committee is to submit its reports to the President within 14 days. “The most senior Permanent Secretary in the SGF’s office and the most senior officer in the NIA are to act, respectively, during the period of investigation”. The president’s action as expected attracted torrents of reactions, some of which queried the propriety of setting up the committee. One of such views which raised concerns about the ability of the Osinbajo-led panel to be fair in its assignment reportedly came from Governor Ayodele Fayose of Ekiti State. The governor described the suspension of Lawal and Oke by the president as diversionary, an afterthought and a prelude to the official cover-up of the original owners of the money. Speaking through his Special Assistant on Public Communications and New Media, Lere Olayinka, the governor said: “Would the president have set up a probe panel if these scams were linked to anyone in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) or those members of his party that are not in his good books? “Most importantly, what business does Presidential Committee have with investigation of crime? Are they telling Nigerians that they have lost confidence in all the intelligence and investigative agencies of the government, including the EFCC and DSS? “The Buhari-led Federal Government is operating like many governments within one government. There appears to be many presidencies within the presidency and this is the reason for the confusion everywhere”. Also, in its reaction, Edo State Chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said it was not surprised by the suspension of the two government officials. Speaking through its Publicity Secretary, Mr. Chris Nehikhare, the party said: “What is surprising and worrisome is the three-man presidential committee set up to investigate the allegations. Why Mr President has decided to use an unknown body that lacks investigative knowledge and skill baffles us.” However, some senior lawyers while baring their minds on the issue, over the weekend, hailed the action of the president saying it is a step in the right direction. All the lawyers save one expressed their optimism that the panel set up by the president will not disappoint Nigerians in its assignment. According to them, since the men in the eye of the storm were government officials, it is only proper for the president to look inward when it comes to the issue of investigating the alleged infractions by such officials. They also noted that President Buhari, in the exercise of the prerogative powers conferred on him by the constitution had set up a panel at the highest level by making Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, its head. Speaking on the issue, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Chief Niyi Akintola, noted that the president cannot be faulted over the composition of the panel saying government should be given benefits of the doubt. He said: “I don’t think the president can be faulted over the composition of the panel. All of us must appreciate the fact that most of time, government do have information that we don’t have. “Don’t also forget that most of these things borders on security, especially the issue relating to the NIA, some of them should not come to the public domain and as such the government is on a very firm ground to set up a panel to unravel the mysteries. “So, we should give government benefits of the doubt. I am not holding brief for the government but I think what government has done is the right thing in such circumstance”. To Dr. Biodun Layonu (SAN), there is absolutely nothing wrong with what the president has done because it is in the exercise of executive prerogative. “There is what we called executive prerogative and that of the president, even to investigate a staff. What the president has done now is to set up a panel at the highest level. This is because he has made the vice president the head of the panel. So, it’s a fact-finding panel. “When the panel finished its assignment, I am sure the president will look at the report and if there is anything that is criminal in nature, then, the law will take its course. “There is nothing to worry about at this point in time because the matter will not go away, let the panel do its work and submit its report. I believe the president will make it public and then, we can take it from there. “Don’t forget that there is an intelligence agency that is involved here and setting up an independent panel when the issue of national security is concerned might be difficult. “The vice president equally has the power as the head of the panel to summon anyone in carrying out the assignment given to him by the president. “Honestly, I did not see anything wrong in what the president is doing at the moment. So, people should be patient and I trust that the panel will do a good job”, the silk said. In his own views, Chief Gani Adetola- Kazeem (SAN) noted that the issue is an in-house administrative affair which must be investigated by an administrative investigative committee. He said: “In any department of government or any agency, if anything happens within, there’s always what is called an administrative investigative enquiry; it’s usually an in-house affair. “There’s a huge difference between administrative enquiry and criminal investigation. If a matter is sent to be investigated criminally, then, anti-graft agencies like EFCC, ICPC and others would be employed. “That does not stop the department concerned from conducting an in-house enquiry first before the matter is taken up if necessary by the criminal investigative agencies. “There’s nobody in the presidency more qualified to carry out the probe aside the Vice-president who heads that panel. But this does not mean that if there is any criminal inclination that the different anti-graft agencies cannot be assigned; so it also depends on the nature of the offence. A former Vice-President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Adekunle Ojo, also noted that administrative investigations and findings can be carried out on the suspended officials because they were government appointees. “I think the panel set up by the president is a right thing and it is in the right direction. The suspended officers are appointees of the Federal Government and their approval is not subject to the approval of anyone under the sun. “This means that administrative investigations and findings can be conducted and made on them. Also, administrative discipline can also be imposed on them. “That is why I have maintained that the usurpation of roles and duties that the Senate went into in the case of the suspended Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Babachir David Lawal, is uncalled for. “So, as far as I am concerned, the panel set up by the president is in order. There is no reason for anyone to impute that the panel will be biased in carrying out its assignments. The Attorney General of the Federation is a member of the panel. The vice president, who to me is an upright person, is also there. “These individuals are persons of proven integrity. By and large, I think the president’s action in setting up the panel is in proper perspective and I hope that the persons that are investigating will be fair to themselves ant God in this wise”. Speaking in the same vein, the Welfare Secretary of the NBA, Adesina Adegbite, said the high profile nature of the issue at hand demands that the president should set up a high profile committee, which is what he has done. “This is an high profile investigation and that is why the Attorney General who is the custodian of law, the National Security Adviser (NSA) as well as the Vice President, who will all know his pedigree, constituted the panel. “Ordinarily, one can say that government ought not to be a judge in its own case, but the issue at hand does not fall within that view. We are talking about issues that involved the National Intelligence Agency (NIA), which is the number one of such agencies in the country. We also have the Director General of the agency laying claim to huge sums of money found in a particular apartment. If that is the case, it is an indication that the money will be used or is being used for certain operations. “Besides, certain high profile persons have also been mentioned with regards to the issue. So, in this kind of situation, the country cannot afford to expose its security secrets to just anybody. Therefore, we should not cast aspersions on what the panel will do or what the outcome of its investigations will be.I believe strongly that the president meant well and that the outcome of the panel’s investigation will help in unraveling the mystery behind the whole issue. “I also think that the personalities involved in the investigation are the most suitable and suited for such task. I did not see anyone of them compromising and I also did not see the matter being swept under the carpet”, he said. However, in his own submissions, lawyer and rights activist, Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa, faulted the president’s action saying it is a declaration of vote of no confidence in the country’s criminal adjudication system, especially the investigative aspect. He said the president has set up an illegal panel. “I am shocked that the Federal Government is turning a professor of law into an investigator. This is not how to celebrate a renowned scholar, the vice president. He is not a minister and should not be asked to be running errands with the Attorney General of the Federation and security operatives. He is equally not an appointee of the president. He was elected on a joint ticket along with the president. This panel is not befitting of the status of the vice president. “My problem is that everytime when there is an allegation against the executive, it is also the same executive that is used as a clearing house and you can always predict what would happen in all these. “But, if members of other arms of government are accused of one thing or the other, they will be made to face the law. The head of the National Assembly is currently facing trial. The same thing with Justices of the Supreme Court and Federal High Court. But, there is nobody in the executive since 2015 that has ever been investigated by the police talkless of being charged to court. “The executive has become a lord unto itself. It’s unfortunate. I believe that this panel is a declaration of vote of no confidence in our criminal adjudication system, especially the investigative aspect and against the background of the cases that has been lost by the government in recent times. “This panel is a declaration that the government has lost confidence in the police and all other agencies. Therefore, it would be important for the government to seek for very credible Nigerians such as when Oputa panel was constituted. Individuals who have credibility and those who still enjoy citizens’ confidence must be able to do a thorough investigation on the issue. Besides, the lesson is also for us to strengthen our law enforcements and investigative agencies so that they can be able to perform their statutory responsibilities and roles. “The panel set up by the president is just a clearing house and it is illegal,” he said.