…to engage CBN on forex issues   Insufficient infrastructure built by telecoms operator is hindering the impressive adoption of infrastructuresharing business model among telecoms companies in Nigeria, the Association of TelecomsCompanies of Nigeria (ATCON) has said. ATCON President, Mr. Olusola Teniola, stated this during an interaction with New Telegraph shortly after the association’s annual general meeting (AGM) in Lagos. He noted that following the realisation that telecoms is a highly capital-intensive sector, the regulator had developed the collocation or infrastructuresharing framework to reduce operators’ capital expenditure (CAPEX). Teniola said: “While the appetite is there among telcos to share infrastructure, it is unfortunate that the existing infrastructure is not even enough for each telecoms firm, thereby making operators reluctant to share their existing infrastructure with rivals. “However, there is illusion that there is infrastructure sharing, especially of passive infrastructure, among operators, but this is very poor, even as I believe strongly that active infrastructure-sharing is the future, whether we like it or not. “I am happy that the NCC has started developing a framework for infrastructure-sharing and that a working committee has been set up to work on this. But we all know that true infrastructure sharing is not yet in place in Nigeria right now.” Other issues discussed at the AGM include need for effective spectrum management, inability of telecoms firms to access the $20,000 per quarter recently introduced by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the need for better collaboration among ATCON members. Speaking on the challenge facing operators in accessing forex, Teniola said: “Forex is a big issue. It is even our biggest problem now. A lot of us have to pay for licences, service contracts and so on. “Some of ATCON members have had to even terminate certain services and put on hold certain expansion projects as a result of our inability to access forex.” He said while ATCON has made a position paper on the problems facing its members and how this could stifle the growth of telecoms sector, which has become an enabler of the entire economy in Nigeria, the association is also planning again to get the audience of the CBN governor to remove information and communication technology (ICT) sector from the list of 41 items denied direct access to forex by CBN. He said inability to access forex will stunt telecoms growth, which has been contributing about nine per cent to the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). The ATCON boss stated that the infrastructure already deployed by the telecoms companies, especially in the area obase stations, is still grossly inadequate for operators and “that is what has informed the poor infrastructure-sharing adoption, which I spoke on earlier.” He also noted the FID into the telecoms sector has been put on hold, since operators find it difficult to access dollar to import equipment for expansion. Already, the Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta, had disclosed last week that the industry needed 80,000 base stations to achieve better services. However, the industry currently has about 40,000 base stations with the remaining 40,000 base stations needed estimated to cost telecoms firms about N1.8 trillion in investment value. “Nigeria needs at least 70,000 to 80,000 telecommunication base stations to actualise its dream of joining the club of countries working towards making Internet of Things (IoT) a reality by leveraging 4G and 5G networks,” Danbatta had said.