As Nigerian workers gather today to celebrate the annual ‘Workers’ Day’, another tension is brewing over minimum wage as organised labour under the aegis of Association of Senior Civil Servants of Nigeria (ASCSN) moves to tackle a lawmaker, who is seeking to move wages from the exclusive legislative list to the concurrent legislative list. The association’s position is as a sequel to an earlier threat issued by Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) while kicking against the bill, which aims to empower state governments to fix minimum wage. NLC had threatened to mobilise Nigerians against state governors and members of the National Assembly behind the bill. It urged trade union movement, civil society groups and prominent Nigerians to rise up as usual and prevent those behind the bill from taking the country 10 steps backward by abolishing the national minimum wage. According to the details, the proponent of the bill, Ayeola Abayomi Abdulkadir (APCLagos) seeks to alter the Second Schedule, Part 1 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) by deleting item 34 from the exclusive legislative list and renumbering the existing item 35 as item 34 and subsequent items accordingly. Lamenting the situation, the ASCSN National President, Comrade Bobboi Bala Kaigama and the Secretary-General, Comrade Alade Bashir Lawal, regretted that at this period when Nigerians were clamouring for upward review of national minimum wage, which came into effect in 2011, Hon Abdulkadir had elected to stay on the wrong side of history by advocating that the national minimum wage should be scrapped. The union said: “It must be admitted that some state governors have always campaigned that there should be no national minimum wage so that they can pay any amount they wish as salary or nothing at all even though they, as governors, collect the same salary. “Since some lawmakers themselves were sponsored by state governors and, therefore, are their surrogates, it may well be that these self-serving politicians are now using some legislators, including Hon Abdulkadir, to reopen the issue of abolishing the national minimum wage, a matter that was resolved as far back as 2014 by the National Assembly itself after a public hearing.” It also observed that most countries of the world guaranteed enhanced national minimum wage for their working population to ensure quality standard of living. It added that Argentina pays a minimum wage of 6,370 dollars per month; Algeria 2,145 dollars; Botswana 652 dollars; Brazil 3,660 dollars; Chad 1,217 dollars; Republic of the Congo 1,826 dollars; Ecuador 5,124 dollars; Equatorial Guinea 2,618 dollars; Estonia 6,534 dollars; Gabon, 3,043, among others, while Nigeria’s minimum wage is 59 dollars less than Chad, Gabon and Republic of Congo. “Even though Nigeria’s national minimum wage is one of the lowest in Africa South of the Sahara, some renegades masquerading as politicians have continued to campaign that the minimum wage in the country should be abolished. “This is very unfortunate because while most Nigerians live below one dollar per day, these politicians loot public funds without qualms, living like oil sheikhs in the midst of poverty,” the union lamented.