The police in Kano yesterday arrested the immediate past Governor of Jigawa State, Alhaji Sule Lamido. Lamido was arrested for allegedly inciting his supporters to stop the conduct of state’s upcoming local council polls. Sources said the arrest of Lamido might be connected with a programme aired on one of the Kano local radio stations. Lamido was alleged to have directed his supporters, during the programme, to ensure that they win the local governments elections by all means. The former governor was said to have been arrested at his Sharada Kano residence in the early hours of yesterday by the Zonal Investigative Bureau unit of Zone One Command of the Nigeria Police in Kano. When NAN visited the headquarters of Zone one located along BUK road, the former governor was still being held by the police. When contacted, the Public Relations officer, Zone 1, DSP Sambo Sokoto confirmed Lamido’s arrest. He said: “Yes I was told that the former governor was invited at Zone 1, but I was trying to get the details when you called me now, ” Sokoto said. He said that more details of the arrest would be issued to the press soon. Last night, the Force Headquarters (FHQ), confirmed the arrest of Lamido, by the Zone 1 Police Command, Kano. The Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), CSP Jimoh Moshood, who spoke on the development with our Correspondent, however, clarified that Lamido was not arrested, but only honoured the Command’s invitation. Asked what the invitation was about, Moshood said it bordered on a complaint of alleged incitement made against him (Lamido), by the Jigawwa State Government. He stated: “Sule Lamido was not arrested but he honoured Police invitation to explain allegations by Jigawa State Government bordering on inciting public disorder by (allegedly) saying that his followers should cut peoples’ heads, before he can come and bail them. “That is an offence under the Penal Code. He is currently under Police custody.” Also last night, the Kano command said it would charge Lamido to court over inciting statements. It said it received a petition from the Jigawa State government under Badaru Abubakar of inciting statements. The Police said the incitement is a criminal offence contrary to section 114 of the panel code. AIG Kayode Aderanti promised to be fair and to ensure the peace and smooth conduct of livelihood among indigenes of the zonal command. He said the outcome of the investigations would be made public as soon as it is completed.