President and Chairman, Council, Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS), Mr. Oluwaseyi Abe, has attributed the introduction of Stand-Alone certifications model of the CIS to strategic decision to align with the global best practices. He also hinged the new certification, which is fast attracting enquiries to the need for the Institute to expand its focus as it has embarked on transformation programme. Addressing stockbrokers at the Institute’s 22nd Annual General Meeting (AGM) in Lagos, Abe noted that the new certification model would enable the candidates to specialize and focus on their core career areas. “This is in conformity with the global best practices and our proposed Chartered Institute of Securities and Investment (CISI) Bill, which we will continue to lobby the National Assembly to pass into an Act”, he said. Abe also stated that CIS was actively involved in the development of the curriculum for the introduction of capital market studies in the primary and secondary schools in Nigeria by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in collaboration with the Nigerian Educational Research and Development Council. Under the new Stand-alone Certification, an aspiring stockbroker can choose to specialize in any of the following segments: equity trading, debt instruments, commodities, and derivatives among others. This would effectively reduce the rigours of sitting for all the courses in the professional examination. The new classification, which has received the blessing of the Institute’s Governing Council is expected to be tied to professional examination in line with the specialty of the aspiring stockbroker. Abe expressed optimism that this innovation would create multiple opportunities for aspiring stockbrokers to operate as the market had grown in terms of diverse instruments for trading. Abe, who commended the stockbrokers on their ability to scout for trading opportunities despite the complex operating environment, noted that under the Stand-alone Classification, every stockbroker would find an attractive area to trade. According to him, the Institute places high premium on innovation as this is a critical factor that would move every organisation to the next level. He noted that the Institute would continue to come up with the latest thinking in the financial market in order to empower the stockbrokers. The new specialisation is expected to enhance more enrollment for the institute’s professional examination, shore up its membership base and raise the bar of its international profile. Commenting on the performance of the Institute in the review period, Abe lamented that macroeconomic headwind had adversely affected operation of Stockbrokers with attendant effects on their ability to pay necessary fees. This according to him, is impacting negatively on the cash flow of the Institute.