As a tradition of excellence, another inaugural lecture for 2016/2017 academic session of the University of Lagos will take place on Wednesday May 10, 2017 by 4:00pm at the main auditorium, of the university. The lecture titled. ‘Sustainable Architecture: A Return to Nature Through Biomimicry’, will be delivered by Prof Michael Adeloye Adebamowo of the Department of Architecture, Faculty of Environmental Sciences, University of Lagos. In an interview with the quintessential architect, about the lecture, will highlight on a lot of challenges affecting our built environment. These challenges are compounded by climate change and economic secession. So the solution to these problems is in sustainable architecture. He further said there is a need for us to design buildings in sustainable manner which can be by returning to nature. “That is, there are lessons to gain from nature whenever we are building, and anytime we build in defiance to nature, there would be a price to pay. We should build according to ecosystem we can return through Biomimicry, that is mimicing nature. We can learn how animals organize in their kingdom and in the composition,” says the distinguished don. Prof Adebamowo further highlighted that the lectures will be delivered under the distinguished Chairmanship of Prof Rahamon A. Bello, Vice Chancellor, University of Lagos (UNILAG), while eggheads from different institutions across the country and even beyond are to be seated by 3:45pm prompt”. The erudite scholar has over 40 publications in national and international journals and referred Conference proceedings with Specialization in Sustainable Architecture, Occupant Comfort and Architectural Science. He is a reviewer and editorial member of some notable journals and currently supervises 8 Ph.D candidates in Architecture. He is a member of many organizations, some of them include: Nigerian Institute of Architects (NIA), Architects Registration Council of Nigeria (ARCON), Association of Architectural Educators in Nigeria (AARCHES), Network for Comfort and Energy Use in Buildings (NCEUB) UK, American society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE), and Fellow of the Society of Environmental Toxicology and Pollution Mitigation (SETPOM).