The Epe branch of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) has expressed its readiness to permanently fix the challenges being faced by officials and inmates of the Ikoyi prisons in Lagos through collaboration with the Nigeria Prison Service (NPS). This was disclosed by the Vice-Chairman of the branch, Ademola Koko, during a visit to the prisons as part of activities to mark the association’s inaugural annual law week programme, with the theme, ‘Access to Justice’. The week-long event was organized in honour of a retired Justice of the Supreme Court, George Oguntade. Koko, who is also the branch’s chairman of the Human Rights Committee, said the visit would familiarise the association with problems confronting the prison system and would shape its recommendation to Governor Akinwunmi Ambode. He and the committee’s vice chairperson, Funmi Adeogun, assured of the association’s legal assistance to indigent awaiting trial inmates. They also promised to seek government support for the funding of inmates’ education through full scholarships and enrollment in West African Senior School Certificate (WASSCE), Universities and Tertiary institutions Matriculation Exam (UTME) among others. The five-man delegation also made donations of antiseptic soaps, washing liquids and toiletries to the prison. In his speech, Assistant Controller-General of Ikoyi prison, Akeem Saliu, while lauding the visitors’ gesture, said problems associated with electricity, funding to purchase drugs, transportation and over population of awaiting trial inmates has remained a clog in the wheel of its progress. Saliu noted that the prison population consists of 478 convicts and 2076 awaiting trial inmates sharing facilities meant for less than 1,000 persons and that “more might still be sent here before the end of the day.” He also lamented situations where juveniles were mistakenly sent to prison by courts saying this was unhealthy for their reformation and development. Also speaking at the event, Justice Oguntade’s media consultant, Ranti Thomas, who accompanied the delegation, said the jurist has paid his dues in service to the nation and that holding the law week in his honour is not out of place. Meanwhile, the Chief Judge of Lagos State, Justice Olufunmilayo Atilade, has called on members of NBA Epe branch to be more dedicated to the continuous growth of the ethics and core values of the legal profession. Justice Atilade made the plea while speaking at a dinner party organized by the branch in honour of Justice G.A. Oguntade (Rtd). Speaking through Justice Safari, the CJ noted that both the Bar and the Bench has mutually compelling duties to uphold the cause of justice and ensure the wheel of justice, at all-time run smoothly without avoidable hitch. She also eulogized Justice Oguntade saying he truly deserve all encomiums and recognition he had so far received, having served diligently and made his mark in judicial service.