Niger State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) yesterday said participants in the Federal Government N-Power programme in the state were unprepared for the programme as majority of them, who were living in urban areas have rejected their postings. Chairman of the board, Alhaji Alhassan Bawa Niworu, who frowned at the modus operandi of engaging the candidates, said that the recruitment was done without taken into cognizance the background of the candidates. According to him, the programme is being constrained and challenged in the state as a result of apathy on the part of the candidates to honour their posting. “Many candidates living in the urban areas are not ready to go to the rural communities to serve, as they want to remain in the urban cities, whereas it is in the rural areas that we needed their services mostly,” Niworu added. The NSUBEB boss said that the board had to return the names of about 90 per cent of the candidates forwarded to them from the urban areas, who have refused to go to the place where they were posted to the N-Power office for necessary action. “We cannot force them to accept the posting because we are not directly responsible for their recruitment. Right now, we have candidates from the urban areas that have refused to accept posting to the rural areas. We did not recruit them and so we cannot do anything about them, we cannot penalise them because we are not in charge of their salaries. It is left to N-Power office to decide what to do with them,” he said. The chairman, however, disclosed that it had accessed the backlog of N2.9 billion un-accessed funds from the Universal Basic Education Board (UBEC), adding that the funds were for 2013, 2014 and 2015, while that of 2016 is on the verge of being accessed. He recalled that the board inherited a debt of N453 million meant for the payment of contractors from the past administration, saying that the board was already working out the modalities to ensure the payment of contractors who had long completed their projects.