…loses 3,500MW power generation  The revenue deficit suffered by Nigeria on gas flaring hit $850 million in one year as local and International Oil Companies (IOCs) sent 330 billion cubic feet of gas up in flames in 2015. Using N196 to a dollar official average exchange rate by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) in 2015, the loss amounted to N166.6 billion. The Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), an agency entrusted with Nigeria’s oil and gas data, revealed that the country’s gas flaring index also led to the loss of 3,500 megawatts of electricity generation and about N78.4 billion ($400 million) carbon credit value. Deputy Director and Head Upstream, DPR, Mrs. Pat Maseli, presented the DPR data on worrisome index of gas flaring at the 10th Annual Sub-Saharan Africa Oil and Gas Conference in Houston, Texas at the weekend. Maseli maintained that 55 million Barrels of Oil Equivalent (BOE) was also lost to gas flaring in 2015 aside from 25 million tons of carbon dioxide emitted. According to her, “55 million BOE was lost and 25 million tons of carbon dioxide emitted. The country is recording decline, but the scale of gas flaring is still worrisome.” Although the country is recording a decline, the DPR official added that the scale of gas flaring in the country was still worrisome, adding that this would become a thing of the past by 2020. Noting that Nigeria, which is the 9th largest gas producing nation in the world, also ranks as the seventh biggest gas flaring nation in the world, the DPR director maintained that the air pollution dipped the country’s revenue by $850 million in 2015 alone. She said that with almost 8 billion cubic meters of gas flared annually, according to satellite data, Nigeria had the seventh largest gas flaring in the world. “At the same time, approximately 75 million Nigerians lack access to electricity. “In recent years, Nigeria has shown significant progress by reducing gas flaring by about 2 billion cubic metres from 2012 to 2015,” she said. Maseli stated that in March, DPR developed policies on gas terms and utilization, which was passed to operators for their input that would be subsequently sent to the National Assembly for its assent. She explained that part of the strategic theme of Nigeria’s Gas Master Plan was to deliver about 80 per cent generation of existing and ongoing power plants capacity and support nine out of the 11GW current installed power generation fleet. She stated that the Gas Master Plan seeks to deliver gas to commercial subsector for use as fuel, captive power, and related end-use to consolidate Nigeria’s position and market share in high value export markets. “The master plan will create regional hub for gas-based industries – fertilizer, petrochemical and methanol; transform gas sector to value adding secure in a bid to consolidate Nigeria’s position and market share in high value export markets,” she said. Giving a breakdown of the 2008-2013 Domestic Gas Supply Obligation (DGSO), Maseli said compliance was about 23 per cent, while 2016 DSO was achieved at 38.18 per cent and 40 per cent in 2017. There is no consensus among the regulators and operators on actual amount of gas pollution in Nigeria. While the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) stated that the country had reduced gas flaring by 26 per cent, the Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG), he stated, had helped the country to reduce the gas flaring to 20 per cent whereas the DPR said the country’s gas flaring had come down to 10 per cent.