 As Nigerian workers gather today for the annual May 1 Workers’ Day celebration, a cocktail of events, from the sublime to howling, still rents the air, revealing that all is yet to be better for the average Nigerian worker. As at yesterday, news from across the country was reflective of the usual tension that had bedevilled Nigerian work environment in the last two years with threats of sack and strikes dominating the polity amid government officials and the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) promising better days ahead for employees. Threat by Delta State Government to sack teachers, conflict between the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) over professional harmonisation, Ogun radio workers’ plans to embark on strike over non-payment of salaries, among others, point to the fact that government and employers in the public sector are yet to get it right and make life better for Nigerian workers. In Delta State, no fewer than 2,000 secondary school teachers have been pencilled down for sack by the state government over age falsification. They were detected two weeks ago during a re-screening exercise conducted by a combined team of independent examiners from federal and state in Asaba. The team, in collaboration with the state’s Civil Service Commission (CSC), headed by Mrs. Nkem Okwuofu, discovered 95 per cent of those affected in the riverine localities of Bomadi, Burutu and Patani councils. A top government functionary at the commission (names withheld) said the actual ages of those discovered were detected through their salary accounts “after they failed to appear before the panel.” The source claimed that before they were summoned for the screening, their names were pasted at the Post Primary Education Board (PPEB) in Asaba. “But to the chagrin of the panel members two weeks ago, most of the teachers, especially those working in the riverine areas that usually used the terrain of their workplace as hideouts failed to show up. It is either they are ghost workers or the repercussion of age falsification has caught up with them,” the source revealed. The source further explained that those who availed themselves of the opportunity the exercise afforded appeared were cleared. While the source maintained that “alarming discoveries came out of the exercise”, one of those affected in Burutu, who simply identified herself as Madam Kate, said the invitation was sent via text messages to phones and numbers that were no longer functional. “Many of us did not receive the purported bulk messages invitation allegedly sent by the panel members, inviting us for screening. Also, the state government failed to consider the environmental condition of our place of work, but if it were to be during elections, riverine areas will be a factor as votes from the council areas will be delayed owing to the terrain,” the teacher said. She lambasted the state government for barging into workers’ bank accounts in a desperate bid to reduce its workforce.In Ogun State, workers of the Ogun State Broadcasting Corporation (OGBC), a radio station owned by the state government, are poised for a showdown over unpaid salaries and allowances. To this end, members of the Radio Television and Theatre Art Workers Union (RATTAWU) and Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) at the corporation have issued a seven-day and final ultimatum for the payment of the outstanding salaries and allowances. The decision was taken at a joint congress of both unions held at the station premises in Abeokuta, the state capital. A notification of the ultimatum, addressed to the OGBC General Manager, was signed by Ayo Aina and Abiodun Ogundipe, RATTAWU and NUJ chairmen respectively of the station, on behalf of the 157 workforce. Our correspondent gathered that the workers were spoiling for war over the alleged non-payment of about N148,264,000 said to be their outstanding entitlements covering between 2012 and 2017. The aggrieved workers, while calling on Governor Ibikunle Amosun to come to their aid, said the ultimatum was given after the expiration of the 14-day ultimatum earlier given to the management. They declared that failure by the management to address their demands before the expiration of the seven-day ultimatum would result in industrial action. In Oyo State, Governor Abiola Ajimobi has promised to ensure clearing of the four-month salary arrears owed the workers in the state, noting that he feels their pains in the face of the biting economic situation. “On our part as government, we are exploring many opportunities to enhance the internally generated revenue of the state. We will spare no effort to ensure that we clear the four-month salary arrears. I urge you to play your part dutifully to achieve this. “No doubt, times are hard because of the pervading poor state of the economy. I feel your pains and I’m optimistic that we shall soon sing a new song of prosperity and abundance,” Ajimobi said. The Chairman, Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), University of Ibadan Chapter, Dr. Deji Omole, yesterday told the Federal Government that academic staff were enduring the worst of welfare and lacked attention. Omole, in a statement made available to New Telegraph in Ibadan yesterday, urged President Muhammadu Buhari to see to their welfare. He lamented that most university lecturers now face hard times due to fractional payment of salaries and unpaid earned academic allowances, lamenting that Nigeria may suffer another brain drain as conditions of service for Nigetorrian academics are nothing to write home about. Omole said that if lecturers’ welfare and salaries were paid in full with adequate world class teaching facilities, they will be able to compete globally. For the NMA, Federal Government’s plan to harmonise salaries in the health sector is not going down well with the medical doctors, who see themselves as higher in rankings than others in the field. The association’s position is contained in a communiqué issued by Dr. Mike Ogirima, President of NMA, yesterday at the end of the 57th Annual General Meeting and Delegate Conference of the association, held in Calabar. It noted that although health workers faced many hazards in the discharge of their duties, their output could not be compared to doctors who performed the bulk of the medical services. “There is an attempt to harmonise the salaries and the Federal Ministry of Health is at the lead of that attempt, which is currently causing a lot of disharmony in the health sector. “Medical doctors are highly skilled and few in the country. Everybody wants to accept that title of doctor in the medical set up; we are not against that. “What we are against is the fact that everybody cannot be equated to be equal. In the animal kingdom, all animals are equal; but some are more equal than others,” it said. The association said that it was not against moves to enhance the welfare of other health workers, but insisted that relativity should be maintained. On his part, the President of the Senate, Dr. Bukola Saraki, described Nigerian workers as the driving force of the nation’s development. Saraki lauded the resilience and commitment of workers in both the formal and informal sector, describing their contribution to the nation and the economy as priceless. “As we mark this year’s Workers’ Day, all Nigerian workers should be proud that their significant contributions keep this nation moving forward – as they are the lifeblood of our country, an integral part of the fabric that makes up our society,” he said. Saraki also stated that the Senate would continue to work to establish and enhance all legislation that would guarantee the safety and well-being of Nigerian workers. Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Yakubu Dogara, has stated that the House is committed to passing a new minimum wage bill. In a statement to mark the 2017 Workers’ Day, Dogara reiterated the resolve and commitment of the parliament to enacting the New Minimum Wage Bill for Nigerian workers. He said that increasing workers’ salary and wages has become necessary in view of the current inflation, naira devaluation and rising cost of living. “I wish to assure you that the National Assembly and in particular, the 8th House of Representatives remains committed to the passage of the National Minimum Wage Bill when presented by the Executive and initiating other laws and legislative interventions that will promote the welfare and wellbeing of Nigerian workers,” the speaker said. APC, in its message, assured the workers of its commitment to improving their living conditions. The party thanked the workers for their strong support in the ongoing task to build a new Nigeria and bring about the much-desired change by the citizenry. The party, in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Bolaji Abdullahi, said: “Without doubts, the economic recession has had a telling effect on the livelihoods of many working families and businesses in the country. We are, however, happy to note that the country’s economy is gradually coming out of recession and the APC assures Nigerians that the government of President Muhammadu Buhari will continue to work hard to improve the livelihood of every citizen.