A bloody clash between supporters of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) was at the weekend averted in Aguobu- Owa, headquarters of Ezeagu Local Government Area of Enugu State. The clash erupted when members of the two parties converged on the same venue, Eke Agu-Obuowa, for their rallies on Saturday. APC had converged at the venue to welcome into its fold, billionaire businessman, Mr. Kingsley Ubenyi, a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) member that had defected to the APC. As the rally was in progress with all the APC bigwigs, including the National Vice- Chairman, South-East, Emma Eneukwu, the state Chairman, Dr. Ben Nwoye, former governorship candidate, Okechukwu Ezea already seated, PDP members besieged the venue in large numbers. Although, APC had earlier set up canopies on one side of the venue, the enraged PDP supporters set up their canopies on the other side from where they made incursion into the APC rally. The PDP supporters, who were not even deterred by the presence of policemen at the venue, chanted war songs and rained abuses on the APC members for daring to intrude into their territory. The atmosphere at the venue became tense when APC members, who were initially dumbfounded by the invasion, suddenly sprang up and repelled the PDP supporters, forcing them to retreat to their own side of the venue. Amidst the riotous atmosphere, Nwoye described the conduct of the PDP supporters as the antics of drowning people, who know that their time was up. Nwoye said the funeral of PDP in Enugu State would take place next week, adding that the entire structure of the party was about to collapse into the APC. Eneukwu, the National Vice-Chairman, South- East, said everything appears to the PDP members like a dream, adding that the APC had been moving house-to-house like kerosene in a bid to capture Enugu State. Also speaking, a former Commissioner for Culture and Tourism in Enugu State, Joe Mammel, said himself and former Governor Sullivan would soon join APC. “Our brother, former Governor Sullivan Chime, will join APC next week and I will join the following week. Everything comes from the Federal Government. We want to be where others are,” Mammel said. Entertaining questions from journalists shortly after he was received into the APC, Ubenyi said he believed in progress and cannot continue to stay in a place where he had no future.