  PROLEGOMENON A television set, otherwise called television, TV set, TV, or telly for short, is a device that combines a tuner, display, amplifier, and speakers for the purpose of watching television and hearing its audio components. Introduced in late 1920’s in mechanical form, television sets became a popular consumer product after World War II in electronic form, using cathode ray tubes. The addition of colour to broadcast television after 1953 further increased the popularity of television sets and an outdoor antenna became a common feature of suburban homes. The ubiquitous television set became the display device for recorded media in the 1970s, such as Betamax and VHS, which enabled viewers to record TV shows and watch prerecorded movies. DIALOGUE Are you still of the opinion that all televisions are the same? Then you are making a great mistake of the century. Since the beginning of this century, modern technology has revolutionized the concept of television. For example, the colonial box TV, which utilizes the mechanism of cathode ray tube (CRT), was earlier replaced by the Plasma display and later by the liquid crystal display LCD type. As technology improves, these televisions are gradually facing extinction. Today LED, OLED and the Quantum display type (QLED) are demystifying the future of television technology. HISTORY The invention of the first mechanical television in 1926 by the Scotsman John Logie Baird, paved a great way for the modern electronic television. The later was pioneered in 1929 by two Russian engineers,Vladimir Zworykin, who emigrated to the US in 1919, and Isaac Shoenberg, to Britain, in 1914.However, before these men, different scientists and engineers had earlier helped in the invention or development of television. For example, the first demonstration of the live transmission of images was by Georges Rignoux and A. Fournier in Paris in 1909. GENERATIONS In 2013, 79% of the world’s households owned a television set. The replacement of early bulky, high-voltage cathode ray tube (CRT) screen displays with compact, energy-efficient, flat-panel alternative technologies such as plasma displays, liquid crystal displays (LCDs), light emitting diodes ( LED), and organic light emitting diodes ( OLED) displays, was a hardware revolution that began with computer monitors in the late 1990s. Most TV sets sold in the 2000s were flat-panel, mainly LEDs. Major manufacturers had discontinued the production of CRT, DLP, plasma, and even fluorescent-backlit LCDs by the mid-2010s. In the near future, LEDs are gradually expected to be replaced by OLEDs. Etymology The word television, comes from the Greek word ‘tèle’, meaning ‘far’, and the Latin word ‘visio’, meaning ‘sight’. The first documented usage of the term dates back to 1900, when the Russian scientist ConstantinPerskyi used it in a paper that he presented in French at the 1st International Congress of Electricity, which ran from August 18 to 25, 1900, during the International World Fair in Paris. The Anglicised version of the term is first attested in 1907, when it was still “…a theoretical system to transmit moving images over telegraph or telephone wires”. COLOUR Scottish inventor John Logie Baird demonstrated the world’s first color transmission on July 3, 1928, using scanning discs at the transmitting and receiving ends with three spirals of apertures, each spiral with filters of a different primary colour; and three light sources at the receiving end, with a commutator to alternate their illumination. Baird also made the world’s first colour broadcast on February 4, 1938, sending a mechanically scanned 120-line image from Baird’s Crystal Palace studios to a projection screen at London’s Dominion Theatre. SMART TV The advent of digital television allowed innovations like smart TVs. A smart television, sometimes referred to as connected TV or hybrid TV, is a television set or settop box with integrated Internet and Web 2.0 features, and is an example of technological convergence between computers, television sets and set-top boxes. Smart TV should not to be confused with Internet TV, Internet Protocol television (IPTV) or with Web TV. Internet television refers to the receiving of television content over the Internet instead of by traditional systems – terrestrial, cable and satellite (although internet itself is received by these methods). IPTV is one of the emerging Internet television technology standards for use by television broadcasters. Web television (WebTV) is a term used for programs created by a wide variety of companies and individuals for broadcast on Internet TV. Smart TVs are expected to become dominant form of television soon. CATHODE RAY TUBE (CRT) The cathode ray tube (CRT) locally known as box television, is a vacuum tube containing one or more electron guns (a source of electrons or electron emitter) and a fluorescent screen used to view images. It has a means to accelerate and deflect the electron beam(s) onto the screen to create the images. In television sets and computer monitors, the entire front area of the tube is scanned repetitively and systematically in a fixed pattern called a raster. PLASMA DISPLAY PANEL (PDP) A plasma display panel (PDP) is a type of flat panel display common to large TV displays. They are called “plasma” displays because the technology utilizes small cells containing electrically charged ionized gases, or what are in essence chambers more commonly known as fluorescent lamps. LIQUID CRYSTAL DISPLAY (LCD) Liquid-crystal-display televisions (LCD TV) are television sets that use LCD display technology to produce images. LCD televisions are much thinner and lighter than cathode ray tube (CRTs) of similar display size, and are available in much larger sizes (e.g., 90 inch diagonal). When manufacturing costs fell, this combination of features made LCDs practical for television receivers. LCD’s come in two types: those using cold cathode fluorescent lamps, simply called LCDs and those using LED as backlight called as LEDs. LIGHT-EMITTING DIODE (LED) An LED display is a flat panel display, which uses an array of light-emitting diodes as pixels for a video display. Their brightness allows them to be used outdoors in store signs and billboards, and in recent years they have also become commonly used in destination signs on public transport vehicles. ORGANIC LIGHT-EMITTING DIODE (OLED) An OLED (organic light-emitting diode) is a light-emitting diode (LED) in which the emissive electroluminescent layer is a film of organic compound which emits light in response to an electric current. This layer of organic semiconductor is situated between two electrodes. Generally, at least one of these electrodes is transparent. OLEDs are used to create digital displays in devices such as television screens. It is also used for computer monitors, portable systems such as mobile phones, handheld games consoles and PDA. QUANTUM LIGHT EMITTING DIODE (QLED) Samsung has just unveiled a new QLED TV range at CES 2017, which might just be the finest “TVs available when they launch. ‘Quantum Dot Light Emitting Diode’. (QLED) is essentially a new variation on the quantum-dot TV technology. “Quantum dots are tiny particles of between two and 10 nanometres in diameter. They’re employed in displays due to their ability – in conjunction with other materials – to give off different colours according to their size. The advantage of this is that they have four times higher resolution than the LEDs and are capable of emitting brighter, more vibrant, and more diverse colours – the sort of colours that really make high definition resolution (HDR) content shine. QLED, therefore, theoretically combines the best of quantum dot and OLED technology – the clarity and deep blacks of OLED, the superior brightness and colour gamut of quantum dots – and results in a package that could boast a 30-40% luminance efficiency advantage, as well as helping lower power consumption., QLED isn’t just OLED TV with quantum dots – it’s an entirely new technology that promises the benefits of both,” says Professor Ike Mowette, Department of Electrical & Electronics Engineering,University of Lagos. QLEDs are expected to replace other forms of display in near future.