The Federal Government has scaled down the 2020 crude oil production target to three million barrels daily, due to the $2 billion annual investment deficit in the industry, New Telegraph has learnt. It was gathered that the annual deficit, which is envisaged to hit $10 billion in the next five years, has also heightened the move to commercialise pipelines and entire operations of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). Government had earlier set production target of four million barrels per day in 2020, but a document of the Ministry of Petroleum Resources sighted by this newspaper, however, showed that the target has been downgraded to three million barrels daily. The new target would, nevertheless, be met through on-going efforts in addressing the challenges in the Niger Delta region to boost oil production. Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Dr. Ibe Kachikwu, the document showed, has received the nod of the president on manhunt for investors who would fill up the investment deficit. The document, christened: “Reforming and Repositioning the Oil and Gas Industry in Nigeria,” quoted Kachikwu to have stated: “We are left with options of bringing in investors that will help address the over $45 billion infrastructure deficit. “Government wants to be bold enough to take steps that have not been taken before. We have to release our assets to private investors. “Either gas pipeline, crude pipeline, the time has come to move from government ownership to private ownership for efficiency.” Confirming that the country’s oil and gas sector was in need of $2 billion annual investments between 2017 and 2021, the document revealed that government “will attract over 10 billion dollars investments to the oil and gas industry in the next five years.” These investments, the document stated, “would address challenges facing the oil and gas industry, covering pipelines, refineries, gas and power, facility refurbishment and upstream financing.” It added: “The Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Dr. Emmanuel Ibe Kachikwu, has said that the objective was to bridge the infrastructure funding gaps in the Nigerian oil and gas sector. “Time has come to bring down the cost of crude oil production and have the right incentives. “Three years ago, we have cost issues, technological issues, but not issues of where the money would come from, because of crude price regime. “Between 2015 and 2016, we took drastic measures on how to moderate prices, while between July 2016 and now, there have been lots of stability in the downstream economy. “There are still some challenges, but work is in progress.” The major problem in upstream, according to Kachikwu, was six billion dollars joint venture (JV) funding debt and other litigations. An outstanding debt of $5.1 billion, he added, would be paid over five years through incremental oil production volumes. The document noted: “We now have new cash call model that would free government resources and help production stability. “There are still some governance issues to be addressed, but once this is resolved, there is expected to be improvement in oil production. “We are left with options of bringing in investors that will help address the over $45 billion infrastructure deficit. “Government wants to be bold enough to take steps that have not been taken before. We have to release our assets to private investors. “Either gas pipeline, crude pipeline, the time has come to move from government ownership to private ownership for efficiency.” Efforts are on-going in addressing the challenges in the Niger Delta region to boost oil production, the document showed, adding that government planned to grow oil production to three million barrels per day. Government had commenced serious engagement with all stakeholders to achieve stability in the Niger Delta region, the document stated, adding that the cost of production was key and the issue of militancy was also key. “We have set a target of zero militancy for 2017 and it is achievable due to lots of community based activities and motivation,’’ the minister of state said. Kachikwu said that the oil sector could not wait for political sector to find political solutions to issues. “We have to collaborate with the oil companies, state governments and see how we can capture some benefits that will come from this. “We have been seeing engagement of youths and we expect more improvement day by day. “The states must make their mini-economic agenda and they will work with security agencies.